nuclear pasta if it does exist
nuclear pasta is the strongest material
in the entire universe
formed from the leftovers of
extinguished stars
this substance gets squeezed into
spaghetti-like tangles of material
it can break but only if you apply 10
billion times the pressure needed to
shatter steel
a planet where it rains glass bright
blue
exoplanet hd189733b
looks peaceful and slightly familiar but
this pretty appearance
hides the planet's terrifying nature
there the winds blow at
5400 miles per hour seven times the
speed of sound
but that's not the worst here it is it
rains glass
sideways in this scorching alien world
better duck the black widow pulsar
just like its spider namesake this
rotating neutron star
is munching on its partner a lightweight
brown dwarf star
pulsar j1311 3430
is infamous for slowly blasting its
companion
the more material the pulsar consumes
the more slowly it spins
the energy the neutron star is losing in
the process causes the companion star to
dwindle
an ice planet that's burning far away
neptune-sized exoplanet plus a436b
is a paradox it's made of scorching hot
ice
the planet completes one full orbit
around the red dwarf gliese
436 in just two days it means it's
traveling remarkably close to its parent
star
that might be the reason why the
planet's temperatures rarely drop below
800 degrees but the strangest thing
the planet hosts huge volumes of water
ice
known as ice icex is that like spacex
which remains solid despite blistering
temperatures
a ringed dwarf planet haumea
a dwarf planet orbiting in the kuiper
belt has a bizarre elongated
shape and two moons the day on this
planet lasts four hours
making it the fastest spinning big
object in our solar system
but the most mysterious thing about
haumea
is that the planet has a thin 40 mile
wide
ring circling it a stellar nursery in
centaurus
this place might be called nursery but
it's anything but peaceful or safe
this nursery made up of hydrogen and
newborn stars
is located in a nebula in the
constellation of centaurus
around 6 500 light years from earth
the intense energy these baby stars emit
makes hydrogen clouds glow ominous red
this energy is so powerful that it's
eating away dark clouds of dust
they're disappearing like lumps of
butter on a hot frying pan
okay i'll stop a diamond planet
about 4 000 light years away from earth
there's a planet that seems to be
one enormous diamond the planet is
denser than any other discovered so far
and consists mostly of carbon it's so
dense
that astronomers think this carbon might
be crystalline
meaning that at least some part of the
planet is diamond
infrared stream from space
neutron stars are ultra dense collapsed
cores of giant stars
they usually emit x-rays or radio waves
but in 2018 astronomers discovered a
weird stream of
infrared light it seemed to be coming
from a neutron star
800 light years away from our planet the
signal was probably generated by a disk
of dust
surrounding the star but this theory
hasn't been proven yet
great red spot on jupiter a vast
churning red hurricane twice the size of
our planet
hasn't calmed down on jupiter for at
least a century and a half
winds are rather calm at the storm
center but on its edges
they travel at a speed of 270 to 420
miles per
hour is more than twice faster than the
most powerful hurricanes on earth
a saturn windsurfing anyone
the eye of sauron the 18th brightest
star in the night sky
fomo hoat is a terrifying sight it's
dubbed the eye of sauron
because a ring of dust and debris
circling it makes it look like a giant
eye
staring into your soul the intimidating
star is more than twice the mass
of our sun and is 25 light years away
from earth
which isn't that far away considering
distances in space
oh wait is that gollum over there
major look butterfly nebula
this butterfly's wingspan is more than
three light years
and the structure inside the nebula is
one of the most complicated
ever observed the nebulous central star
a white dwarf is heated to an incredible
000 degrees it means it was formed from
a gargantuan star
likely more than five times the size of
our sun
the white dwarf is surrounded by a thick
disk of dust and gas at the equator
that's what probably makes the whole
structure look like an hourglass
or a butterfly eskimo
nebula discovered more than 200 years
ago
this nebula got its name for a reason
its double
shell formation looks like a person's
face hidden in a padded hood of a winter
jacket
the star at the center of eskimo nebula
is not unlike our sun
and the bizarre orange streaks in the
outer part of the cloud
stretch light years away in all
directions
the pillars of creation more than seven
thousand light years away from earth
there is the eagle nebula a young
cluster of stars just
five and a half million years old the
hubble space telescope
managed to take an image of several dark
silhouettes near the nebulous center
those are the so-called pillars of
creation an
active star-forming region
a living fossil galaxy dg sat 1 galaxy
is as big as the milky way but it's
nearly invisible
because its stars are spread out
incredibly thinly
but what makes the galaxy so unique is
that it's sitting
all alone unlike other galaxies of this
kind which are usually found in clusters
it can mean that dg sat-1 was formed in
a different
era probably a mere 1 billion years
after the big bang
if it's true the galaxy is a real living
fossil
the ring nebula at first sight
a giant cloud of dust and gas around an
old
almost extinguished star does look like
a ring
the deep space colorful object 2 300
light years away from earth
is actually a ring that wraps around a
blue ball shaped structure
each end of the structure sticks out of
the ring's opposite sides
water in space a cloud of water vapor is
floating in space
surrounding a super massive black hole
12 billion light years away from earth
the cloud contains 140 trillion times
the entire volume of water on our planet
astronomers believe
this water cloud appeared just 1.6
billion years later than the universe
itself
um i wasn't around then so you'll just
have to trust me